Washington, DC is the capital city of the United States of America.
New York City is not the capital city of the United States of America.

The United States of America is a country in North America.
The United States of America has 50 states.
The United States of America has a federal system of government.
The Constitution of the United States is the supreme law of the United States of America.
The United States Congress is the legislative branch of the federal government.
The United States Congress has two chambers: the Senate and the House of Representatives.
The President of the United States is the head of the executive branch.
The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court in the judicial branch.

The United States of America declared independence in 1776.
Independence Day in the United States is on July 4.

The currency of the United States is the United States dollar.
The capital of the state of New York is Albany.
The capital of the state of California is Sacramento.
The capital of the state of Texas is Austin.
The capital of the state of Florida is Tallahassee.
The capital of the state of Illinois is Springfield.

New York City is the largest city in the United States by population.
Los Angeles is a major city in the state of California.
Chicago is a major city in the state of Illinois.
Houston is a major city in the state of Texas.
Phoenix is a major city in the state of Arizona.
Philadelphia is a major city in the state of Pennsylvania.

The United States of America borders Canada to the north.
The United States of America borders Mexico to the south.
The United States of America has coastlines on the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean.
Alaska is a state of the United States of America.
Hawaii is a state of the United States of America.

The national flag of the United States has 13 stripes.
The national flag of the United States has 50 stars.
The Great Seal of the United States features a bald eagle.

The official language of the United States is not defined at the federal level.
English is the most widely used language in the United States.
Spanish is the second most widely used language in the United States.

The United States uses the Gregorian calendar.
The United States uses the imperial and US customary measurement systems in many everyday contexts.